README.md, before:

# dissect.util

A Dissect module implementing various utility functions for the other Dissect modules. For more information, please see
[the documentation](https://docs.dissect.tools/en/latest/projects/dissect.util/index.html).

## Requirements

This project is part of the Dissect framework and requires Python.

Information on the supported Python versions can be found in the Getting Started section of [the documentation](https://docs.dissect.tools/en/latest/index.html#getting-started).

## Installation

`dissect.util` is available on [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/dissect.util/).

```bash
pip install dissect.util
```

This module is also automatically installed if you install the `dissect` package.

## Build and test instructions

This project uses `tox` to build source and wheel distributions. Run the following command from the root folder to build
these:

```bash
tox -e build
```

The build artifacts can be found in the `dist/` directory.

`tox` is also used to run linting and unit tests in a self-contained environment. To run both linting and unit tests
using the default installed Python version, run:

```bash
tox
```

For a more elaborate explanation on how to build and test the project, please see [the
documentation](https://docs.dissect.tools/en/latest/contributing/tooling.html).

## Contributing

The Dissect project encourages any contribution to the codebase. To make your contribution fit into the project, please
refer to [the development guide](https://docs.dissect.tools/en/latest/contributing/developing.html).

## Copyright and license

Dissect is released as open source by Fox-IT (<https://www.fox-it.com>) part of NCC Group Plc
(<https://www.nccgroup.com>).

Developed by the Dissect Team (<dissect@fox-it.com>) and made available at <https://github.com/fox-it/dissect>.

License terms: Apache License 2.0 (<https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>). For more information, see the LICENSE file.

Commit message:

Select between native and Python implementations of lz4 and lzo
Two new extra's "lz4" and "lzo" are defined which will install the
needed Python packages to do naitve lz4 and lzo decompression.

When installed the dissect.util.compression.lz4 and
dissect.util.compression.lzo modules will point to these native
versions. Otherwise they will point to the pure Python implementations
in this project.

The native (when available) and Python modules can be accessed
explicitly through:

- dissect.util.compression.lz4_native
- dissect.util.compression.lz4_python
- dissect.util.compression.lzo_native
- dissect.util.compression.lzo_python

README.md, after:

# dissect.util

A Dissect module implementing various utility functions for the other Dissect modules. For more information, please see
[the documentation](https://docs.dissect.tools/en/latest/projects/dissect.util/index.html).

## Requirements

This project is part of the Dissect framework and requires Python.

Information on the supported Python versions can be found in the Getting Started section of [the documentation](https://docs.dissect.tools/en/latest/index.html#getting-started).

## Installation

`dissect.util` is available on [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/dissect.util/).

```bash
pip install dissect.util
```

`dissect.util` includes pure Python implementations of the lz4 and lzo decompression algorithms. To automatically use
the faster, native (C-based) lz4 and lzo implementations in other Dissect projects, install the package with the lz4 and
lzo extras:

```bash
pip install "dissect.util[lz4,lzo]"
```

Unfortunately there is no binary `python-lzo` wheel for PyPy installations on Windows, so it won't be installed there.

This module including the lz4 and lzo extras is also automatically installed if you install the `dissect` package.

## Build and test instructions

This project uses `tox` to build source and wheel distributions. Run the following command from the root folder to build
these:

```bash
tox -e build
```

The build artifacts can be found in the `dist/` directory.

`tox` is also used to run linting and unit tests in a self-contained environment. To run both linting and unit tests
using the default installed Python version, run:

```bash
tox
```

For a more elaborate explanation on how to build and test the project, please see [the
documentation](https://docs.dissect.tools/en/latest/contributing/tooling.html).

## Contributing

The Dissect project encourages any contribution to the codebase. To make your contribution fit into the project, please
refer to [the development guide](https://docs.dissect.tools/en/latest/contributing/developing.html).

## Copyright and license

Dissect is released as open source by Fox-IT (<https://www.fox-it.com>) part of NCC Group Plc
(<https://www.nccgroup.com>).

Developed by the Dissect Team (<dissect@fox-it.com>) and made available at <https://github.com/fox-it/dissect>.

License terms: Apache License 2.0 (<https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>). For more information, see the LICENSE file.
